=begin pod

=head1 NAME
FakeDBI - an interim database interface for Rakudo Perl 6

=head1 DESCRIPTION
The roadmap for DBI v2 L<http://search.cpan.org/~timb/DBI/Roadmap.pod>
published in November 2004 laid out the plans for Perl 5 and 6.
Specifically there is a Parrot DBDI project that will give the same DBD
facilities to all Parrot based languages.  See also
http://www.nntp.perl.org/group/perl.perl6.language/2005/07/msg22054.html

Because no code is available yet, this project plans to temporarily fill
the gap, by imitating the classic Perl 5 DBI interface.  Although this
is not on the DBI v2 roadmap, let's say if it looks like a DBI, and it
talks like a DBI, then it is a DBI.

=head1 DBD CLASSES
Whilst it is convenient, the FakeDBD drivers stay together with the
FakeDBI files in a single project.  In future each FakeDBD may become a
separate project, although this conflicts a bit with the idea of being
"temporary".

The first DBD is for MySQL, the next ones will probably be for SQLite,
Postgres and FreeTDS.  Also nice to have would be a dummy driver for DBI
testing, and drivers for CSV and perhaps just in-memory tables (saving
as JSON, YAML, XML or whatever).

=head1 TESTING
The initial test file is a quick and dirty concatenation of all the
scripts in the Perl 5 DBD::mysql test suite, translated to Perl 6.  It's
horrible and inefficient code, but worth persisting with to ensure a
decent coverage.  Only about 10% of the suite has been converted so far,
with 43 tests, 35 passing, 6 todo and 2 skipped.

In the medium term, the plan is to write a new test suite consisting of
a general part that is common to all DBDs, and other parts specific to
individual DBDs.  The tests will be written to demonstrate to potential
users, which functions they can use.

=head1 BUGS
The FakeDBD::mysql::StatementHandle class has a C<finish()> method that
does not work, because native functions that return void cannot be
called.  Something gets popped off the native return stack, and soon
after that KABOOM, Parrot segfaults.

=head1 SEE ALSO
The Perl 6 Pod in the L<doc:FakeDBI> module.
The Perl 5 L<doc:DBI> and L<doc:DBI::DBD>.

The documention of the FakeDBI and the FakeDBD modules, and also this
README, is in the proposed Pod6 format, with the intention of increasing
experience with its use.  View it with an appropriate formatter if your
system has one.

=head1 LICENSE and COPYRIGHT
Use these files at your risk and without warranty.  Give due credit if
you do.  Written by Martin Berends.

=end pod
